---
title: Translations
description: How to contribute to translating the Data Studio.
---

Every button, element, and other piece of text in the app is translatable, providing full internationalization for the Directus platform. Many languages are currently supported, with more being added all the time. Anyone can add or refine any languages through the integration with our [Crowdin](https://locales.directus.io/) integration. 

## Crowdin

Our [Crowdin](https://locales.directus.io/) page provides an external interface for managing all of the different language translations for the app. You can update and extend existing languages, or request a new language be added.

### Working with Existing Languages

1. Navigate to [Crowdin](https://locales.directus.io/).
2. Click on the desired language.
3. Click **Translate All** in the header.
4. Log in to Crowdin, or register an account as needed.
5. Select a source string using the left-hand navigation.
6. Add or edit the translation in the lower text area.
7. Click "SAVE" below the translation.

It is important to keep the character length approximately the same as the source string (English) to avoid truncation or a drastically different wrapping. For example, some text translations will go in a smaller button with limited space for text and no ability to wrap.

Crowdin provides useful TM (Translation Memory, created by people) and MT (Machine Translation, created by machines) suggestions, however you should always confirm that these are context appropriate, as they may not accurately map to the source meaning.

If you feel you do not have enough information on how this string is used, you can always ask for additional context using the "comment" section.

## Releasing New Translations

As soon as a translation is edited on Crowdin, a pull request is created by Crowdin in our repo, which contains the corresponding changes.

This pull request is usually merged into main before publishing a new release.

Editing translations directly in the GitHub repo is not recommended, as these changes will be overwritten by Crowdin again (unless we do a manual sync).

## Requesting a New Language

To propose adding a new language to the Crowdin service, get in touch with us at [devrel@directus.io](mailto:devrel@directus.io).
