---
title: CLI 
description: Using the create-directus-extension to build, validate and manage extensions.
---

# Directus Extension CLI Utility

The [`create-directus-extension` CLI utility](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-directus-extension) is used to scaffold a Directus extension.

## Creating Extensions

To create an extension, run the `create-directus-extension` command:

```shell
npx create-directus-extension@latest
```

After specifying the name of the extension, the type of the extension and the programming language you want to use, the
utility will create a folder with the recommended file structure to create an extension.

If you want to combine and share dependencies between one or more extensions, use the
[bundle extension type](/guides/extensions/bundles).

## Building Your Extension

Before your extension can be used by Directus, it has to be built. If you used the `create-directus-extension` utility
to scaffold your extension, building your extension is done by running:

```bash
npm run build
```

The generated `package.json` contains a script that calls the `directus-extension` CLI which is part of
`@directus/extensions-sdk`:

```json
{
	"scripts": {
		"build": "directus-extension build"
	}
}
```

If you prefer to scaffold your extension manually, you can use the `directus-extension` CLI binary directly. The
`--help` flag provides useful information regarding the available options and flags.

Internally, the CLI uses Rollup to bundle your extension to a single entrypoint.

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}

**Watch**<br/>

The CLI supports rebuilding extensions whenever a file has changed by using the `--watch` flag.

::

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}

**Automatically Reload Extensions**<br/>

To automatically reload extensions every time you make a change, without having to restart Directus, in your
`docker-compose.yml` file, set `EXTENSIONS_AUTO_RELOAD=true`.

::

### Validate Extensions

Extensions can be validated using the following command:

```shell
npx create-directus-extension@latest validate
```

The following validations are run:

| Validation Name     | Description                                   |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `built-code`        | Check that the extension has been built.      |
| `directus-config`   | Check that the configuration file is present. |
| `license`           | Check that the license file is present.       |
| `readme`            | Check that the README file is present.        |

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}

**Checking Specific Validations**<br/>

To make sure your extension is passing a specific validation, you can do so using the `-c`  or `--check` flag:

npx create-directus-extension@latest -c <VALIDATION_NAME>

::

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}

**Verbose Report**<br/>

By default, validation will report any issues. However, a full report for every check can be generated using the `-v` or `--verbose` flag:

npx create-directus-extension@latest -v

::

## Linking Extensions

In order to create or check that a valid symbolic link of your extension exists, run the following in your Directus extension project:

```shell
npx create-directus-extension@latest link
```

### Configuring the CLI

Most of the time, it should be sufficient to use the CLI as is. But, in some cases it might be necessary to customize it
to your specific needs. This can be done by creating a `extension.config.js` file at the root of your extension package.
An example with the currently available options will look something like:

```js
export default {
	plugins: [],
	watch: {
		clearScreen: false
	}
};
```
