---
title: Create a Project
description: Create a project in Directus Cloud.
---

Projects come with custom URLs, daily [backups](/cloud/projects/backups), and the recommended infrastructure for most projects.

To create a project, open the team menu in the dashboard header and select the desired team and click on "Projects". Select the team you wish to create a project under and click on "Create Project". 

Projects come with the following configuration options:

- **Project Name** — Custom. This can be changed at any time.
- **Project URL** — Custom URL: `your-custom-url.directus.app`. _This cannot be changed_.
- Datacenter Region — `United States, East`, `Europe, Frankfurt` or
  `Asia Pacific, Singapore`.

## Project Template

<!--TODO: Image of template selector-->

This is the base state of your Directus project. You can select from one of the following:

- **Empty Project** – A completely blank project, ready for you to take in the direction you need.
- **Simple CRM** – A customer relationship management system (CRM) that you can customise to your needs.
- **Simple eCommerce** – A ready-to-go online store you can get going with.
- **Simple CMS** – A ready-to-go content management sytem (CMS) that you can customise to your needs.

## Project Tiers

The available [project tiers](/cloud/getting-started/introduction) are billed either monthly or anually.

The Directus Cloud enterprise tier offers power and scale to meet any project's needs and offers more datacenter regions, upgraded support options, and more.

[Contact us](https://directus.io/contact) to find out more.

## Datacenter Regions 

the location you choose to host your project in can have a measurable impact. To help optimize your project and meet any local data compliance laws such as GDPR, professional and enterprise offer multiple datacenter regions to host from.

There are 19 regions available for enterprise projects, and 3 for professional projects:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Region</th>
    <th>Enterprise</th>
    <th>Professional</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>United States, N. Virginia</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td>✅</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, Frankfurt</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td>✅</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Asia Pacific, Singapore</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td>✅</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>United States, Ohio</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td>✅</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>United States, N. California</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>United States, Oregon</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Africa, Cape Town</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Asia Pacific, Sydney</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Canada, Central</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, London</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, Milan</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, Paris</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, Stockholm</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Europe, Zurich</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>South America, São Paulo</td>
    <td>✅</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>
