---
title: Version 11
description: Breaking changes may require action on your part before upgrading.
---

## Version 11.6.0

### GraphQL primary key field type changed from `String` to `ID`

GraphQL primary key field types have changed from `String` to `ID`. If you're using GraphQL queries or mutations that pass primary keys as variables, you’ll need to update those variable types from `String` to `ID` to maintain compatibility.

### `items.create` action hook receives final payload

We now pass the final payload to the `items.create` action hook, after the filter hooks and preset changes have been applied, instead of the original payload.

## Version 11.5.0

### Changed error message when a Flow condition operation fails

The error thrown when a Flow condition operation fails has been changed to `FailedValidationError`. 

Flows that check errors from Flow condition operation failures will need to be updated accordingly.

## Version 11.1.2

### New Comment Endpoints

We've introduced a dedicated `directus_comments` collection, replacing the previous system that used `directus_activity`
for comments. While new comment endpoints have been added, existing endpoints remain functional.

Comment primary keys are now UUIDs instead of numeric values, which may impact custom type checking implementations.

### SDK Comment Function Uses New Endpoints

The internal comment endpoints in the Directus SDK have been updated to reflect this change. To avoid errors, ensure
your Directus version is compatible with the latest SDK when using comment functions.

### Migrate to `CommentsService` in Extensions

Extensions using the `ActivityService` to manage comments should migrate to the new `CommentsService`.

## Version 11.1.1

### Dropped support for the SendGrid email transport option

The SendGrid abstraction for `nodemailer` is no longer supported, so we have dropped it's usage from Directus. Users of
SendGrid should update their configuration to use their SendGrid account's SMTP Relay configuration instead.

## Version 11.0.0

Directus 11 introduces policies, a new concept within access control configuration. Permissions are no longer held in
roles, but instead in policies. Policies can be attached to roles and also directly to users.

While users can still only have one direct role, roles can now also be nested within roles. A user's permissions are now
an aggregate of all policies attached directly to them, to their role, and any nested roles.

### Changes to Object Properties

Object properties have changed and moved. This should only impact users who use and rely on the users, roles, and
permissions endpoints.

#### Users

Users now have one additional property - `policies`, which is a many-to-many relationship to `policies`.

#### Roles

Roles no longer hold `admin_access`, `app_access`, `enforce_tfa`, or `ip_access`. These have been moved to `policies`.

Roles now have one additional property - `children`, which is a one-to-many relationship to `roles`.

#### Permissions

Permissions are no longer attached to a `role`. This has been changed to a `policy`.

### Requests for Missing Fields Now Fail

If you are requesting fields that do not exist anymore, your requests will throw an error. To fix this, either put
fields back into your data model or remove them from the request.

### M2A Fields Now Require Collection Name

If you are requesting Many-to-Any (M2A) fields without collection name, they will throw an error. To fix this, you need
to put the collection name you are targeting. This is true regardless of level or if using REST/GraphQL.

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}
**Migration/Mitigation**  
  :::collapsible{name="migration steps"}
    You could previously request fields in a M2A builder without specifying the collection they came from, for example:

    ```
    GET https://example.directus.app/items/example?fields=items.item.m2a_field
    ```

    This no longer works and you must specify which collection the field is located in:

    ```
    GET https://example.directus.app/items/example?fields=items.item:m2a_collection.m2a_field
    ```

    [Understand the M2A field syntax in our global query parameter page](/guides/connect/query-parameters).
  :::
::

### Changes for Extension Developers

#### Properties Returned from `usersStore`

The `usersStore` has a `role` object that previously contained the `admin_access`, `app_access`, and `enforce_tfa`
properties. These are now returned directly in the `user` object.

#### `preRegisterCheck` Data Structure

If you use the `preRegisterCheck` guard function in your module extension to determine whether it is shown, it now
receives a different data structure. It previously received a list of permission objects. Now, it receives the same data
returned from the new [Get Current User Permissions](/api/permissions#get-current-user-permissions)
endpoint.

### Replaced `mysql` with `mysql2`

The database client library [`mysql`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql) has been replaced with
[`mysql2`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2), which is a continuation of the former. The client is used to connect
to MySQL/MariaDB databases.

If you're using MySQL/MariaDB, please note that:

- `mysql2` leads to cross-collection queries (filtering on relations) with stricter charset comparison. Therefore,
  ensure again that the value of the config option
  [`DB_CHARSET`/`DB_CHARSET_NUMBER`](/configuration/general#database) matches the charset of your tables.
- Values of type "Decimal" are now returned as a `string` instead of a `number`, which ensures that the precision is
  preserved.

