---
title: Overview
headline: Getting Started
description: Learn about the Directus Data Engine and Studio, when to use it, and a how it works.
navigation:
  title: Overview
---

Directus is a backend for building your projects. Connect it to your database, asset storage, and external services, and immediately receive rich developer tooling (Data Engine) and a comprehensive web application (Data Studio) to work with your data. Granular and powerful access control means users can only see, interact, and create data allowed by their role used by both the Engine and Studio.

:partial{content="engine-studio-box"}

## How It Works

:video-embed{video-id="96b44cbc-1b14-4bea-87cd-0c4cb34d261d"}

## Use Cases

### Backend as a Service

Tools that developers need to build successful applications including autogenerated APIs, event- or schedule-based automations, user management and authentication, realtime, and webhooks.

### Headless CMS

Remember, *content* is just data from a database. Manage your files and data, delivering it across websites, apps, kiosks, digital signage, or any other data-driven application.

### Internal Tool Builder

Using Directus Insights, your whole team can build custom applications. Ditch the spreadsheet and quickly build back-office apps and admin panels for customers, inventory, projects, or reporting.

### Data Management and Analytics

Establish a single source of truth for all data. Build no-code analytics dashboards to gain insights into company KPIs and other metrics. Coalesce previously siloed data and use Directus Automate to keep everything in sync.

::callout{icon="material-symbols:school-outline" color="pink" to="/tutorials"}
See all project and use-case tutorials.
::

## Directus Cloud

Cloud architecture can be complicated and resource-intensive. Directus Cloud provides scalable, optimized storage and infrastructure, and automatic updates so you can focus on what makes your project special.

With your Directus Cloud account, you can set up teams to organize projects and billing. You'll be able to get a project running in about 90 seconds. Directus Cloud projects scale automatically to improve reliability, even with unexpected peaks in traffic.

:cta-cloud

Need advanced configuration, unlimited scalability, and dedicated support? **[Contact us to check out Directus Enterprise Cloud](https://directus.io/contact).**

:partial{content="license"}
